website/integrations: add planka (#15108)
goauthentik/authentik: website/integrations/services/planka/index.mdx

---
title: Integrate with Planka
sidebar_label: Planka
support_level: community
---

## What is Planka

> > Planka is an open-source, Trello-like application designed for project management using a Kanban board system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Planka is an open-source, Trello-like application with a Kanban board system, used for project management.
```

    - **Choose a Provider type**: select **OAuth2/OpenID Connect** as the provider type.
    - **Configure the Provider**: provide a name (or accept the auto-provided name), the authorization flow to use for this provider, and the following required configurations.
        - Note the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** values because they will be required later.
        - Set a `Strict` redirect URI to `https://planka.company/oidc-callback`.
        - Select any available signing key.
    - **Configure Bindings** _(optional)_: you can create a [binding](/docs/add-secure-apps/flows-stages/bindings/) (policy, group, or user) to manage the listing and access to applications on a user's **My applications** page.

3. Click **Submit** to save the new application and provider.

### Create a group in authentik _(optional)_

To provision users in Planka with administrative permissions, you will need to create a group in authentik.

1. Log in to authentik as an administrator and open the authentik Admin interface.
2. Navigate to **Directory** > **Groups** and click **Create**.
3. Set a name for the group (e.g. `Planka Admins`) and click **Create**.

> 4. Click the name of the newly created group, then switch to the **Users** tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click the name of the newly created group, and then switch to the **Users** tab.
```

5. Click **Add existing user**, select the user who requires Planka administrator access, and click **Add**.

## Planka configuration

> Add the following required environment variables to your Planka deployment:

Reviewer: Is it possible to give any more guidance on exactly how or where? Is it a file, or in the Planka UI, or...? If not, no worries.

    - **Configure the Provider**: provide a name (or accept the auto-provided name), the authorization flow to use for this provider, and the following required configurations.
        - Note the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** values because they will be required later.
        - Set a `Strict` redirect URI to `https://planka.company/oidc-callback`.
        - Select any available signing key.
    - **Configure Bindings** _(optional)_: you can create a [binding](/docs/add-secure-apps/flows-stages/bindings/) (policy, group, or user) to manage the listing and access to applications on a user's **My applications** page.

3. Click **Submit** to save the new application and provider.

### Create a group in authentik _(optional)_

If you want to provision users in Planka with administrator permissions, you will need to create a group in authentik.

1. Log in to authentik as an administrator and open the authentik Admin interface.
2. Navigate to **Directory** > **Groups** and click **Create**.
3. Set a name for the group (e.g. `planka-admins`) and click **Create**.
4. Click the name of the newly created group and navigate to the **Users** tab.

> 5. Click **Add existing user**, select the user that needs Planka administrator access and click **Add**.

Author: It's referring to user accounts and that's why I used "that". But you can easily interpret it as the user/person too, so either option works in my opinion.

## Planka configuration

Add the following required environment variables to your Planka deployment:

```yaml
OIDC_ISSUER=https://authentik.company/application/o/<application_slug>/
OIDC_CLIENT_ID=<client if from authentik>
OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET=<client secret from authentik>
```

Optionally, if you want to provision users with administrator access, include the following environment variable:

```yaml
OIDC_ADMIN_ROLES=<authentik group name>
```

Optionally, if you want to enforce the use of SSO and disable local authentication, include the following environment variable:

```yaml
OIDC_ENFORCED=true
```

## Configuration verification

> To verify the integration with Planka, log out and attempt to log back in using the **Log in with SSO** button. You should be redirected to authentik. Once authenticated, you should be redirected to the Planka dashboard.

Author: Yeah that's a good idea. Just some standard examples. 

Although in this case I actually prefer the original to the suggestion.
